>> Rodriguez: So I mentioned a couple
of times, accessibility and email.
This is something that for a long time,
wasn't really talked
about in the email world.
Accessibility was always an afterthought
if people even thought about it.
We've been using tables for
a long time to code emails, tables are for
layout are not inherently accessible.
We've been using all image based
emails which aren't very accessible.
We just haven't really cared about it,
but it's nice that there a move in
the last couple of years to
create more accessible emails.
But there's a couple of very specific
things you should really account for
in email itself that's a little
bit different from the website.
But why should we care about
accessibility in the first place?
Hopefully, a lot of you have
studied accessibility, or
take some of the Frontend Masters courses
about it, or at least thinking about it.
Because it is increasingly important,
there's 285 million low vision users.
I think this was from the World
Health Organization study last year.
39 million of which are blind.
So those are people that
are relying on assistive technology
to consume digital
content including emails.
So if we're not accounting for
those users,
that's a lot of the large portion of the
population that are completely ignored.
They can't interact with their emails,
they can't consume our content.
From a business perspective, that's people
that we're leaving out of the equation.
We're not getting money from them,
we're not participating with them,
we're not creating those relationships.
So you really wanna focus on those users,
and
think about how we can create
more accessible emails for them.
A colorblind,
8% of men are colorblind to some extent,
there is different variations
of that by that kind of fact.
When we are thinking about links or
design of our email,
what information people can
actually get from those.
Women are a little bit better off
point 0.5% of women are colorblind.
But still significant portions of
population that have these disabilities,
these different abilities that
affect how they consume our content.
My favorite thing though is that this idea
that everybody's temporarily able bodied.
This graphic's from the Microsoft
Inclusive Design Toolkit which is
an amazing resource for
creating accessible digital products and
digital content.
But they propose this idea that we're
all only temporarily able bodied.
At some point we're gonna
have some sort of disability.
Whether that's a permanent disability
like we lose a limb, or we go blind.
If it's temporary, it could be something
like you just got an eye exam, and
your pupils are dilated so
your vision's a little bit off.
It could be completely situational, or
you are holding a baby in your arm, and
you don't have the full use of your
limbs for interacting with an email.
God forbid you're driving, you're trying
to figure out where you need to go, and
that information is in your inbox.
So you're distracted, and you're trying
to figure out where you need to go.
So anything we can do to increase
accessibility for the smaller portion
of the population that has permanent
disability is going to make and
create a better experience for
all users regardless of their abilities.
So it's really important to think about
that kind of stuff when you're designing
emails, when you're developing emails.
So accessibility and
email comes down to those two sides,
the visual design of your campaigns and
the content and your campaigns.
And then the development practices
we use to implement that stuff.
So from a design perspective you
wanna ensure a couple of things,
you want to rely on color contrast,
keep that high.
So anybody with low vision, or anybody
with a dim screen, or like an older screen
that doesn't have as wide of a color
range, they can still read your content.
They can consume that content
interact with your emails.
It's important for people with
any sort of reading disability,
they might not be the strongest readers,
they might have dyslexia.
There's other things that could
affect the way they read content or
process visual information.
You wanna create a strong visual hierarchy
in your email so that it's easy for
people to scan that content.
Get what they need out of that email
campaign, and move on with their the day.
Again, with reading disability
is focusing on readability using
things like left line text.
Using that generous font size,
that generous line height is gonna make it
easier for people to read that content
regardless of their reading ability.
And then keeping layouts simple, and
making sure things like buttons
are usable, text links are usable.
Embracing those link conventions that we
saw earlier are gonna create much better
more accessible email regardless
of somebody's ability.
Readability is a big thing for
me just because I feel like a lot of
people don't consider it in their email.
So this is an email example,
you can see it's a huge amount of
text that's all center aligned.
For most people,
it's not a massive problem,
but depending on your reading ability.
Depending on just what you're
doing throughout the day,
this could prove a problem.
Because all of those different lines have
different starting points for a reader.
So mentally what your brain's doing is,
you get to the end of the line, you're
jumping down to the next line, trying
to figure out where it needs to start.
It might not seem like a big problem for
people that are comfortable reading,
or have really strong reading abilities.
But for others that's a huge hurdle for
them finding that next line,
and it could create this friction that
sometimes they're unable to overcome.
So using left line text is a great way
to just provide baseline readability and
accessibility for emails.
Because you don't want all these different
starting points for these lines.
I generally say if it's more than one or
two lines of text then
you should left align it.
Headings are usually fine
to have center aligned, but
longer paragraphs like this
can be problematic, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Maybe we're doing does that
apply for like justification as well,
like or no-
>> Rodriguez: So, [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Somehow, yeah.
>> Rodriguez: So there you go.
Yeah, so the question about justification
so you can justify that tax so
that it has that even those outer
portions so the ending line and
starting liner even it looks nice and
symmetrical.
The problem with that is I introduced
those similar hurdles as rivers of white
in between the text.
So the spacing is adjusted in between
each word to make it that uniform,
symmetrical look.
But when you do that it's
the same mental hurdle for
people that have any sort
of reading disability.
So it's just creating that friction for
them, that frustration, and
that's something we wanna avoid.
That's why I usually suggest left
align text with that ragged edge for
anything that's longer
than a few lines of text.
Headings, center line it, smaller blocks
of copy, you can try justifying that text.
It's nice visual look, but
it's not really that useful for
people that have to worry
about that kind of stuff.
But the best way to make emails
accessible is to use real age email text.
So we saw earlier those image based
emails, they don't use that text, so
anybody using a screen reader.
They're gonna really have a difficult
time consuming that content.
There's nothing for them to pull from.
So using live text, using html and
CSS is the best way to create
more accessible email campaigns.
As much of your design and copy you
can put into real text, the better.
This is a great example from STRAVA,
that does the exercise tracking,
cycle tracking.
They have this beautiful email,
it looks gorgeous,
has this big bold typography,
these bright colors, it's a great email.
But most people would think
this is all image based.
But when you disable images, you can
see that it's almost all live text.
So that design is consistent across
those different experiences from
images being turned on,
images being turned off.
Lose a couple of things like the logo,
the sharing icons on the right there.
But all the important information,
your activity,
your statistics that you wanna get
from that email, it's all there.
And it's all beautifully designed
because it is using html and CSS.
So I would urge you to use as
much text as possible, and
kinda rethink that a lot of
people will think that for
something to be accessible,
it doesn't necessarily look good.
It might look outdated, or
not be well designed but
you can create really great while design
experiences like this driving email.
And keep them accessible by relying
more on text than anything else.
When it comes to development, there's
a couple of things we wanna make sure we
account for
when we're coding our email campaigns.
Perhaps, the most important one is
making sure that any tables we use
are accessible for
people using screen reading devices.
By default tables like they denote
that you're presenting some sort of
tabular data.
They're not traditionally used for
layout like they were never intended to
structural elements, or laying out
a web page, or an email campaign.
So when you start using them for that,
if you're not accounting for it then,
somebody using a screen reader.
Will encounter your email, and it'll read
out each individual table, table row, and
table cell.
If we're using multiple columns, multiple
cells, then it will literally say table.
Table row one of three, table cell one of
three before it even gets to your content,
which is a horrible experience for
somebody that just wants to get
into the content of your email.
So the way we take care of that is
by using this attribute role and
setting that to presentation.
So that tells screen or
APs is that this is purely presentational,
we don't want the table being
read out loud to our user.
So it'll skip over all those table tags,
all those table rows, table cells,
and just focus on the content
of our email campaign.
Which we're hopefully using that semantic
markup to provide that additional context.
It should be noted that that role needs
to be set on each individual table,
it's not inherited.
So a lot of times,
email designs will have nested tables.
You'll have a container table,
which we'll look at again in a minute.
But you'll have nested tables
depending on your layout.
So if you set that at that main container
table it's not gonna hair down to your
other tables.
So any table you introduce in an email,
unless it's presenting tabular data of
some sort, then include that role
attribute and set it to presentation.
Using semantic markup,
again, is really helpful.
That can help reinforce that visual
hierarchy by providing that same hierarchy
for people using assistive technology.
So using things like headings,
and slanted like paragraphs,
and emphasis,
all those semantic elements that
work across email should be used to
provide that additional context.
Again, we saw using those
texts alternatives for
all of our images is really important for,
not only accessibility purposes,
but for
sited users that have images disabled.
They can still get some sort of contacts,
some value from our email campaigns.
And then we saw earlier when we were
you're just starting off with our dock
using the lang attribute to make sure
that people using assistive technology.
It uses correct language profile so
that they can understand exactly what that
content of the emails
trying to say to them.